as fighting goes on in Gaza so too do
efforts to Halt the nearly four-month
War Hamas now says that Israel and
international mediators have made it a
tentative truce offer but the mil the
militant group considered a terror
organization by most western states says
that it is still reviewing the
details hundreds of tents are crammed
together in Rafa hard against the border
with Egypt this is probably the safest
place for people who fled to
southernmost Gaza to escape the fighting
and bombing elsewhere it's estimated
that half of the population of Gaza is
now in the area but the Israeli Army is
still attacking Targets in the
city gaza's Hamas ran Health Services
say 14 people were killed in one attack
in Rafa on
Saturday they tell people leave your
home go to the zones considered safe but
at the end wherever people go they get
bombed why who knows it's just Revenge
they just want to bring destruction to
people that's
all you can see the huge destruction in
this area this shows its strength all
the neighboring houses were
affected meanwhile International
attempts to negotiate a ceasefire
between Hamas and Israel
continue
Hamas confirmed that it has received a
proposal from Israel the US Egypt and
Qatar but said it needed more time for a
decision but there is no deal yet and
Israeli defense minister YF Galan says
his Ground Forces will also eventually
Advance into Rafa something Israel's
allies have strongly warned against
German foreign minister analina bebok
said a military operation against Rafa
would not be justifiable
and let's get more now from journalist
hen belusa who was based in Gaza until
he and his family evacuated in November
he joins us now from the Jordanian
Capital Aman hzm uh good to see you
again we are hearing these reports that
the Israeli Army plans to expand its
offensive to Rafa um or rather in Rafa
on the Egyptian border what more can you
tell us about
that this is still not certain uh there
are a lot of statements coming from
different sides mainly Israeli one and
the Egyptian uh side which is very
relevant um some statements particularly
came from um Israeli defense minister
who said that they would advance in but
apparently according to the reports and
and from different sources the Egyptians
are not happy with that there are some
reports that they would replace this
plan uh replace this plan with the with
more enforcement along the border um
Egypt would build underground wall along
the border between Egypt and
Gaza uh other things the the the there
was a report that talking them Israel
asked Egypt to Rel relocate um um the
RAF Crossings between Gaza and Egypt to
the a place near Kim
Shalom uh meantime Hasam uh Israel and
Hamas are still negotiating a possible
ceasefire and the release of Israeli
hostages what more do we know at this
point about the status of those
talks um a lot of reports nothing
official coming but Hamas is saying that
they are reviewing reviewing the
proposal that submitted to them through
kares and
Egyptians there are two different levels
of of discussion one is the internal
Hamas
they have different bodies they are
discussing it within the bodies of of of
the movement um another another level is
discussing it with other factions
particularly Islamic Jihad and other
like pflb or dflp they want to as
according to the statements from Hamas
officials they want to uh show a one
voice from the Palestinian side so it's
not clear there are some reports that
the Hamas answer or response will come
out later today
journalist hazam belusa joining us from
Aman in Jordan with the latest on the
situation there in Gaza thank you so
much thank you let's bring in now Hiba
TI she is the care acting Deputy
Regional director for the Middle East
and North Africa she joins us from Aman
what options are there for the hundreds
of thousands of displace people in Rafa
if the Israeli Army extends its
operations
there
thank you so much for this question
unfortunately uh as you know and as we
have seen in your report the options
that are remaining almost uh for the
people if they are moved out of RA are
almost none uh these are this is the
only remaining area where people are
trying to secure themselves in a place
that is uh that is um that is actually
uh uh open for them to stay in with the
minimum minimum not even enough uh
services that exist if this place is
going to be under military action there
we are very afraid that there are no
other places to go to no options to to
use uh in Gaza talk with us a little bit
more about the services and the aid
because for weeks we have been hearing
what the UN has described as pockets of
famine in Gaza and diseases spreading
what more can you tell us about the
current efforts to reach civilians and
provide
help uh there are many actors in Gaza
trying to reach as many people as
possible among them is care uh all of us
we try our best we try to secure uh
services from outside from inside Gaza
but what we do is still the same we use
this uh uh terminology weeks and weeks
ago Drop in the Ocean what we are
providing now is still a drop in the
ocean if the needs were already massive
weeks ago they are extremely massive now
the number of Aid entering is very very
limited
the possibility to distribute it is very
limited in the north it's even almost
not existence and the same is applied in
the in the south in RAF and in the
surrounding area the same is applied on
kanun and other locations the the
requirements are massive but what is
happening in Gaza or entering is very
very limited and little the
international court of justice has
ordered Israel to allow more Aid into
Gaza what has your organization been
noticing has there been any increase
since
then there are days where we see more
Aid entering days with less Aid entering
the highest number of Aid trucks
entering in Gaza per day the highest
number is as almost most half of the
requirement in normal days before the
war which means that we are still
unfortunately facing very limited amount
entering Gaza the requirements are
massive as I mentioned with the winter
entering more and more Aid is needed for
uh winter items shelter items and
medicine and this is not happening
unfortunately the after the icj uh um uh
announcements there was not much
improved to answer your question we've
been hearing and and Reporting today
that Israel and Hamas um negotiations on
a potential ceasefire are still ongoing
um you mentioned a number of of things
that are needed in Gaza what would be
among the most urgent needs for
civilians if there were to be any break
in the fighting what's on the top of of
the list for
you it's very difficult to prioritize
one item or two or even three everything
is needed in Gaza food water fuel
shelter medicine all of that is needed
and unfortunately all of that is focused
only on life saving and not even for for
livelihood uh we don't even think about
it right now it's only for life saving
all these are considered priorities that
we wish we are going to be able to
secure in in any ceasefire or uh at
least a short ceasefire in the coming
hopefully days hi care acting Deputy
Regional director for the Middle East
and North Africa in Aman thank you so
much for joining us on DW
news thank
you